.Dd June 23, 2011
.Os LINUX
.Dt DYNR-PBDNS  8 URM
.Sh NAME
dynr-pbdns
.Nd
Dynr: Policy based DNS proxy.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
\fB pbdnsd\fR

\fB pbdns-dbus.py\fR

\fB pbdnsd-start\fR

\fB pbr-cleardnsgateway.py\fR

\fB pbr-setdnsgateway.py\fR

.Sh DESCRIPTION

A dynr dynamic router system is a router system that sits between a network with multiple 
internet routers and a network with multiple workstations, and allows the people working
on the workstations to pick and change lines according to their personal preferences and/or
according to the need of the moment. A dynr consists out of several subsystems, the policy 
based routing core (dynr-pbrouting), a web interface (dynr-web) and a dynamic policy based 
dns proxy (dynr-dns). 

The policy DNS proxy subsystem of the dynamic router provides tools and scripts for 
starting up, running and administrating the DNS related part of a dynamic router system.

Just like the rest of the dynamic router system, the dns core will get its configuration 
from the  /etc/pbrouting.json configuration file. You should change this file according to your
needs respecting the DNS configuration. Once you are hapy with your configuration, you should 
use the tool pbr-checkconfig.py to check the full validity of your config.

At system startup, dynr-pbrouting will run the pbrdns-startup.py script in order
to start the different processes that make up the DNS subsystem. It will this start up
pbdns-dbus.py, a dbus service for allowing the dynr-web subsystem of the dynamic router to change
the DNS proxying policy for any given workstation. It will also start up an instance of the
pbdnds daemon for each of the client networks.

The dynr-pbdns package also contains command-line tools for manualy changing the DNS policy
for a given workstation. The pbr-setdnsgateway.py script allows any user in the pbrgwman group
to set the gateway that DNS queries are by default forwarded to for a given client. 
The pbr-cleardnsgateway.py script allows that same user to set a given client as offline.
A clinet that is marked as offline will by default get all DNS A queries resolved to the IP
address of the dynamic router on the network that the client lives on. This strategy will for
HTTP result in all web trafic for that client being redirected to the dynr-web sub system,
that will than allow the client to change its routing and DNS proxying policies appropriately.


Please note that after adding your user to this group, you may have to restart dbus, log out 
and log in again before the dbus will allow you to use the dbus service with this tool.

.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The dynr-pbrouting package depends on a system that uses both the dbus and the upstart system.
It has been tested on ubuntu 10.4 and 11.4. If you are successfully running dynr-pbrouting on any
other distribution or version, or are having problems running it on any such system, please notify
the author.

.Sh FILES
/etc/pbrouting.json  
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpbrouting.json\fR(5) \fBdynr-web\fR(1) \fBdynr-dns\fR(1) 
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.Sh HISTORY
This package is derived from the original (unpublished) dynrlite system.
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written  by  Rob Meijer <rob@dnpa.nl>, for the GNU/Linux Ubuntu system
